# Step 1 (Create the Folder)

1. create your new folder named "server" in your project folder.
2. Open terminal and navigate to that "server" folder and use bash `code .` in terminal to open in VScode.

## Step 2 (Initialize the package)

1. press ( Ctrl + Shift + ` ) to open terminal in VScode.
2. In the terminal of VScode, use bash `npm init -y` to initialized the package by default.
3. After that, you will see (package.json) file appeared.

## Step 3 (Installation of requirement packages in Project)

1. In the terminal of Vscode, use bash `npm i express` or `npm install express` to install express.js in the project. (Express.js)
2. In the terminal of Vscode, use bash `npm i typescript --save-dev` to install typescript in the project. (Typescript)
3. In the terminal of Vscode, use bash `npm i -D ts-node-dev tsc-alias tsconfig-paths @types/node` to install tools for running and watching TypeScript files, managing path aliases, and providing Node.js type definitions, all as development dependencies and ( -D ) means devDependencies. (Typescript)

### Step 4 (Initialize the tsconfig.json)

1.  Get the tsconfig.json from ( https://github.com/saiheinthuyasoe/zai-wad-notes/tree/main/TypeScript/typescript.json ).
2.  Copy tsconfig.json and Paste to the "server" folder.

### Step 5 (Edit the package.json)

**In the "script" object of package.json:**

1. Delete `"test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"` and add `"dev" : "tsnd --respawn -r tsconfig-paths/register --pretty --transpile-only ./src/index.ts"` to "script" object.
2. Add `"build" : "tsc && tsc-alias"` to "script" object.
3. Add `"start" : "node ./dist"` to "script" object.

### Step 6 (Create src folder and index.ts file)

1. Create new folder named "src" in the "server" folder.
2. In the "src" folder, create a new file called "index.ts" file.
3. Add ".gitignore" file to the Project folder.

### Step 6 (Install express for TypeScript)

1. bash ``` npm install --save-dev  @types/express ``` in Vscode Terminal (https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/express).
